[Music]
welcome everyone to this week's ipld
thing meeting
it's the 22nd of march
2021 and as every week we go over the
stuff that we've worked on
in the past week and discuss things
that yeah open questions or any agent
items
and also perhaps ask about what other
people did
in the ipld world even if we didn't do
it ourselves
so um i started with myself so i'm still
working on this js multi formats
thing in js ipfs currently it's
a bit on a break because as you might
know
there's currently this effort of getting
um type
type script types into js ipfs
and it's close to being finished and
there's currently
with just has such a big overlap that
just makes sense for me to pause for
half a week and get this merged first
and then i resume my work
um and
[Music]
yeah so i still hope really that this
quarter i will
finish the unix fs
stuff that this works with the new
multi-formats
things and then for the next quarter the
plan
is that i make a plan because i won't be
available anymore because i'm
yeah on a different team but um have a
plan to see like
yeah also to estimate how big it is
although i'm not a huge fan of time
estimates so i will probably only tell
how big it is and not how long it will
take
um and then see is it a
proper project is it yeah something that
team takes on or we will see but
um yeah i hope it will only be a
friction of the work that i've
i did um but currently i also have the
feeling that once i finish the unicef s
stuff i have
a good idea because either everything
falls into place
or i find out that yeah it just won't
work and it will take another
year to do so um i hope
fully you will reach this point at the
end of the quarter it's still my plan
and i'm
yeah i hope to get there um therefore
yeah
i don't have anything else next is eric
so i have a few things to talk about in
unix fs land potentially but not a ton
else
i confess the amount of goku that i've
been shipping lately has decreased in
frequency
a lot of other things to do during the
job hours nowadays
so somebody started a project recently
for trying to conceptualize some of unix
fs
v1 stuff as an
adl in ipld
and so writing new libraries on that
basis so that
these key concepts from unix of sv1 will
be accessible as a regular node
via the go ipld prime libraries
and there is a link to a pr
in the notes which has a road map that
i'm drafting for where i hope that we
could go with that so there's some code
already but it's for one of the adls
and i tried to sketch out how many adls
i think we could use here
and i seem to have come out with about
four or five
so this is something that i would love
folks review on
but the overview is basically there's at
least one
adl for making the files in the end of
the
tree appear as bytes i think there might
actually be two of those because we have
two different
layout strategies i'm not sure if those
need totally divergent code pass or not
there's one for seeing uncharted
directories
making those look like a map there's
another one
for traversing the hamps the sharded
form directories
so now we're up to either three or four
and then
the most interesting one or the the most
outlandish one perhaps is the last one
which is something that sees through the
directories
and jumps past the metadata to the next
file
and this fourth or fifth but anyway
final one
is the one that i'm hoping will make
unix fsv1 style pathing
be essentially ipld native
so if all those things work according to
dream it'll be really really cool
but yeah i would love review on on that
road map and seeing if it makes sense to
people
one of the other things that's really
interesting here is that one of those
adls
most of those adls will have a reader
and a writer's side
um and that last one won't
it will be always in forever read-only
not because it's hard to implement
writable but because it's impossible
because it's skipping some of the
information inside
so you can't have a symmetric right
i don't know i hope that will work out
but if anyone sees issues please
let us know early on in the design
process
that's about all i have to report this
week
thanks that's really cool because yeah
so
i i haven't expected expected it to be
so difficult because
as i mentioned in the other meeting that
i
also thought about doing this as my next
step in the like either javascript or us
to
trying to um implement unicef as we won
as adl
and i haven't thought it would be that
difficult or like or like
not that difficult like so many pieces
basically so i
thought yeah i'm hoping it's not
difficult but it is several
pieces yeah hopefully the pieces make it
easier to figure out
internally i think some of these adls
will end up
using the other ones like that one that
gives you the jump overview
that almost completely uses one of the
other ones and then just adds a little
bit more wrap around the end
hopefully cool
um next is scott
hey real sorry
no worries um
so the group of us was
doing a bunch of project planning last
week so we didn't do too much on ipld
front but we're back on it
this week um one of the
places where we're hoping to
expose this ipld prime um
in ipfs and yet the benefits of all of
this work that we've been doing over the
last few weeks
is that there is a set of dag commands
that interact with
ipld gag objects and previously have
interacted with dag format objects
and we want to allow them to interact
with ipld prime
dag objects now instead and so
we're starting to look at how that api
gets brought up to prime
somehow
they made their own little table of
multi codecs in a package
in ipfs called core slash core dag and
it defines
the codec json as dag json and the kodak
seabor as dagsebor and also the codec
dag seaport has tagged c4
um
this is cool because if we try and
switch that over to the canonical multi
codec table
we've now moved from dag json back to
json.json
which won't do the dag part of following
links and interpreting links
i think we're just going to make that be
a breaking change and say
we have a canonical set of names for all
of these codecs
having your own table of four of them
that you misnamed
in a way that we can't support them is
sort of a bad look
and so in the release notes we'll say
you should use the canonical names now
but it does bring up the question of
okay so all of the tests and stuff are
based on
json and we don't have a json codec for
prime yet
um i submitted a pr to
uh extend the dag json codec to also
support the
non-dag variant by just ignoring when
there's a link and making that just the
normal json which
i think is what the decoder needs um
i may try and do the same thing for
seaboard um
so a non-dag cbor importer
which i suspect is similarly large
amounts of effort or small amounts of
effort
um
cool um
all right um i i have one comment
because
i'm also kind of in favor of having not
a central table but just having like
implementations just defining their
identifiers they need although they
of course should be correct like but
it's still like it's like i think it's
like for
or like at least i mean for our uh
libraries i guess it makes sense to use
just a
conical table but i think so
i would say like from if you think about
ipld
or bigger things as
if you use it from an application i
think it should be
like the libraries should be built in a
way that people could also just
define their own um
their own constant somewhere and still
use their stuff
without importing like a full table um
so we've kind of like make this change
in javascript a bit like
this it is possible um just a
note for in case anyone else implements
um right i guess just in terms of the
way
multi-codec or multi-format is
implemented in go
there is a registry of known codecs and
their associated names which has
a list of known codecs and names
pre-registered in it
and separately from this ipld prime has
a multi-codec
registry of known encoders and decoders
and so it's possible for a plug-in that
gets included with ipfs
to define either additional
encoder decoders for known codecs or to
define a whole new
named codec and associated encoders and
decoders
so it is somewhat piecemeal in that
sense but if you're going to
um use one of the ones that is in that
table
um you probably should use the same
names and codes that are in that table
um right so the reason that this is
weird is because the table
defines as sort of that core set of
known ones that
uh there is something called deg.json
that's at ox-129 and there's a different
one called json
not dag that is at ox200
and then in the ipfs command line they
have their own little map that says
we're going to use the string
json and map it to an implementation of
ox129 not of ox200
yeah sure yep and those should totally
match
um cool um does
anyone else has anything
for the smithing
nope then it was again a quick one
so uh thanks everyone for attending and
see you all next week
goodbye everyone